# [Data Structures & Algorithms](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/README.md): [Labs](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/README.md)
```shell
python labs
```

 1. [Getting Ready](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/lab1/README.md)
 2. [Lists](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/lab2/README.md)
 3. [More Lists, Stacks & Queues](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/lab3/README.md)
 4. [Sorting & Array Maps](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/lab4/README.md)
 5. [Hash Maps](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/lab5/README.md)
 6. [Binary Trees & Traversals](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/lab6/README.md)
 7. [Binary Search Trees](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/lab7/README.md)
 8. [AVL Trees](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/lab8/README.md)
 9. Priority Queues & Binary Heaps
10. Graphs & Search
11. More Graph Search Algorithms

There are 11 labs, corresponding one-to-one with the 11 weeks of this module.

The first lab is simply a setting-up guide for you and your computer, to be done in readiness for the labs ahead.

From the second lab onwards, they consist of exercises in which data structures and algorithms covered in lectures the
week before have been partially implemented, with the goal being for you to figure out how to complete them.

These labs aren't marked, nor assessed as part of your overall grade for the module, however you are still expected to
have a go. Students completing this module should not only understand the theory of the data structures and algorithms
covered, but also have some experience of turning that theory into practice by having actually (at least attempted)
implementing them.

Though they aren't marked, there is a test suite that should help you discover errors in your code. You should bear in
mind that this is a tool for you, not for us - it's not for examining you, but is instead for assisting you with
debugging, and helping you to be confident in your solution. You should also bear in mind that if it flags an error,
then there's probably an error, but if it doesn't find any problems and gives you the green light, that doesn't
necessarily mean your solution is perfectly bug-free. To be more sure of your code you should think about it, consider
edge cases, understand how it will behave in each, and look carefully to see that you've written what you think you have.

Labs are made available the weekend before, at the end of the week whose lectures they correspond to. At the same time
as the next week's lab is made available, solutions for the previous week's lab's exercises are released. If you
couldn't figure out part of an exercise, then you should of course have a look at the solution to see how it's done.
However, even if you think you got everything right, it's still worth comparing your solution with the one provided,
because - again - there are many nearly-correct implementations that still hide subtle bugs.

In addition to the "core" exercises, which everyone studying this module ought to at least spend some time on,
regardless of how successfully they manage them, there are "plus" exercises, which are essentially side quests, to be
done if you have the time and inclination. These are mainly example applications of the data structures and algorithms
you implemented in the core exercises, or occasionally related data structures / algorithms, which are worth knowing
about, but aren't part of the main content and won't come up in the exam.

Each lab directory `lab<N>/` has two subdirectories, `core/` and `plus/`, which each contain the corresponding
exercises. Each exercise has its each directory, for example `lab2/core/singly_linked_list/`. In this directory there'll
be a file called `exercise.py` (e.g. `lab2/core/singly_linked_list/exercise.py`), containing the partial implementation
that you're to complete through edits to this file. When the solution is available, it will appear as a `solution.py`
file in this directory (e.g. `lab2/core/singly_linked_list/solution.py`), containing the completed implementation for
you to compare and contrast yours with.

To get everything set up, or to remind yourself of what command to run,
[go to lab 1](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/lab1/README.md).

Happy coding, and good luck!
